documentation.md, before:

# Sazim take home challenege documentation

As the description of the challenge points out aptly that there are 3 parts to implement: Front end (fe), Back end (be) and Database (db).

The first thing I decided to tackle is the be and db. Why? Because getting these done would make things many times easier to handle in the fe.

Since be and db is very unfamiliar to me, I expected this to be the most challenging part of this project.

After setting up the server, db and prisma. With a basic user model, its time to attempt part 1: the login and user registration (sign up). Challenging parts of this section is to figure out how to communicate back and forth with the front end to simulate authentication.

## Completed functionality for Part 1

This was very challenging for me as the syntax of express and prisma was not very familiar to me.
Mantine initially felt a bit slow due to syntax unfamiliarity but it feels easy to work with.
Experience some weird errors with cors which was resolved by enabling the CORS policy in my express server.

## Starting Part 2

Faced a lot of trouble with the getMyProducts and addProduct api methods due to unfamiliarity with the syntax. Struggled a lot while using postman and scratching my head as to why the post method wasn't working. Turns out I was sending the request in raw text format and not json. :)

Both fe and be completed for part 2 and that was very challenging for me. Mostly due to lack of experience. Working in frontend mostly built good habits for debugging in front end however, lack of experience in backend got me scrambled in the most minor of issues. Picked up a few pointers for debugging such as console.logging with checkpoints in multiple lines to check which command was causing the error. Encountered weird errors. For example sent userId params as strings but the database was expecting integers. That took way too long for me to figure out.

Putting a lid on part 2 for now. It's at least functional. Will come back to it later to streamline it further.

## Starting Part 3

Completed buyProduct be and database funcitonality. Seems to work thus far. More will be revealed when we get to fe. Will work on rentProduct backend functionality.

Commit message:

implemented rentProduct functionality, moving to fe of part 3

documentation.md, after:

# Sazim take home challenege documentation

As the description of the challenge points out aptly that there are 3 parts to implement: Front end (fe), Back end (be) and Database (db).

The first thing I decided to tackle is the be and db. Why? Because getting these done would make things many times easier to handle in the fe.

Since be and db is very unfamiliar to me, I expected this to be the most challenging part of this project.

After setting up the server, db and prisma. With a basic user model, its time to attempt part 1: the login and user registration (sign up). Challenging parts of this section is to figure out how to communicate back and forth with the front end to simulate authentication.

## Completed functionality for Part 1

This was very challenging for me as the syntax of express and prisma was not very familiar to me.
Mantine initially felt a bit slow due to syntax unfamiliarity but it feels easy to work with.
Experienced some weird errors with cors which was resolved by enabling the CORS policy in my express server.

## Starting Part 2

Faced a lot of trouble with the getMyProducts and addProduct api methods due to unfamiliarity with the syntax. Struggled a lot while using postman and was scratching my head as to why the post method wasn't working. Turns out I was sending the request in raw text format and not json. :)

Both fe and be completed for part 2 and that was very challenging for me. Mostly due to lack of experience. Working in fe mostly, built good habits for debugging in front end however, lack of experience in backend got me scrambled in the most minor of issues. Picked up a few pointers for debugging such as console.logging with checkpoints in multiple lines to check which command was causing the error. Encountered a lot of weird errors. An example would be I was sending userId params as strings but the database was expecting integers. That took way too long for me to figure out.

Putting a lid on part 2 for now. It's at least functional. Will come back to it later when working on fe to streamline it further.

## Starting Part 3

Completed buyProduct be and database funcitonality. Seems to work thus far. More will be revealed when we get to fe. Will now work on rentProduct backend functionality.

Addition of the buyProduct function resulted in the delete product button not working in MyProducts page. That was likely because after the transaction, the product sold was still being displayed. So implemented the logic in MyProducts get function such that those products with the status of sold do not get displayed. I did not delete the productId from the user table altogether as it might be useful to keep a transaction history.
